do you love moist fluffy chocolate chip
muffins with that sky-high bakery top
and a nice crisp edge well today's your
lucky day because i'm going to show you
how to make them hey you're watching
preppy kitchen where i john canel teach
you how to make delicious homemade
dishes to share with your family and
friends these chocolate chip muffins are
going to whip up in a snap so let's get
started first off set that oven to 425
degrees fahrenheit we want a really
high blast of heat when these go in
because that'll set the edge and let
them
rise up so you'll have a nice bakery
style dome on top if you did 350 they
would spread out and
it just wouldn't be the right kind of
muffin okay now for the dry ingredients
i'm using a scale because that gives you
the most accurate results but
if you're using cups click up here for
my how to measure flower video it shows
you all the ins and outs of measuring
flour correctly it's a thing that goes
wrong the most often in baking and it
sucks when you add too much flour okay
into my bowl and i'm using a sifter here
i'm adding in
two and three quarter cups that is 330
grams of all-purpose flour
one teaspoon of salt and that might seem
like a lot but do you want some contrast
to all that chocolate and the sugar so
it'll really like amp the flavor up and
let you appreciate what's going on in
the muffin
for leavening i'm using one tablespoon
of baking powder and again it's kind of
a lot of leavening agent but this is how
you get that bakery style top
sift it out
we're done with that scale and get set
aside as well give it a quick whisk
now we can set it aside
this was melted a minute ago it already
cooled down i'm going to put it into the
microwave
for the wet ingredients it's important
that you're dealing with room
temperature things and if it gets cold
we're going to warm it up in the
microwave and ps it's going to get cold
this counter is freezing all right 300
ml or 1 4 cups of whole milk
in yoga half a cup or 113 grams of
unsalted butter that's been melted
and get it all out there so by the by
today is the first time ever in the
history of preppy kitchen that brian is
filming you wanna say hi
no he's eating cookies that i made
one cup or 200 grams of
sugar right in that bowl let's give it a
whisk to bring it together
if you notice some clumps of butter
happen when you mix it all together pop
it into the microwave for 40 seconds and
it should be totally fine
i used warm milk so it's not happening
to me so right now we're gonna add in
the eggs and the sour cream
two large eggs one two as well as one
quarter cup of sour cream and if you
don't have that you can go ahead and use
full fat plain yogurt it'll be
completely delicious still
this is optional but i am adding one
tablespoon of vanilla that's 15 ml
wow delicious i'm gonna mix this up
right now but look what's happened just
in the few seconds that we've been doing
this what's going on here look it's
turned into like a
like a butter mush that's not what i
want so i will be popping this into the
microwave after i whisk the eggs in you
don't want to do that before the eggs
get whisked in because they could be
overcooked
a little heat's going to fix all of our
problems okay a little bit of heat later
let's give this a whisk
that's nice nice homogeneous fluid
mixture is what we want now it's time to
pour the wet into the dry give it a
whisk and take it to almost combined you
could have a couple clumps of like flour
hanging out here and there because
we'll do more mixing once those
chocolate chips go in
so you can see we have a couple clumps
here and there but it's no big deal it's
time for some chocolate the best part
all right in my recipe i specify one and
a half cups of semi-sweet chocolate but
i'm living large and using one cup of
semi-sweet and half a cup of bittersweet
you could even use milk chocolate if
that's what you prefer
here we go
that's the bittersweet chocolate and i'm
taking a handful of the semi-sweet chips
and reserving them because i'll be
sprinkling them on top for beauty
purposes rest of the chocolate chips go
in
and
you should fold them in with a spatula
not use a whisk
after those chocolate chips are folded
in it's time to pop this into the muffin
tins i'm doing it two different ways so
you can see the difference between a
naked muffin and one that's in the paper
it's gonna be
different i've buttered and floured half
of the muffin tins so you can see just a
nice cut of butter
good dash of flour move all that flour
around and then dump out the excess all
right and for the rest i'm going to use
muffin papers which go a bit higher so
you won't have that like mushroom shaped
muffin top but they should still rise up
with a nice dome
in you go
unlike with cakes some people really
prefer that nice crispy muffin edge so
if that's your jam then you're going to
want to do it without the papers just
really be careful about adding in enough
butter and flour so they pop out easily
i'm using a large ice cream scooper to
transfer my batter into the muffin tin
and i want to fill it up all the way
normally it's two-thirds of the way high
for cupcakes but this time it's full to
the brim okay fill those papers up and
when you're doing that
try to be careful about getting like
batter on the edges it'll burn it's just
a matter of how it looks it'll still
bake fine when you're scooping the
batter it's a nice time to kind of
monitor the chocolate chips and make
sure that no one is getting
a sad amount you want to have an equal
distribution so
if you notice that your scoop didn't get
any chips
scoop up some chips after the batter
goes in you can top the muffins with a
scattering of chocolate chips this is
not super necessary but it'll give you
nice glossy melty chocolate tops and it
makes a big difference the chocolate
chip muffins look a little bit naked if
they don't have those chocolate chips on
top
okay this recipe makes exactly 12 big
muffins and now it's time to go into the
oven
you need to have a high heat to lock in
the edge so it gets set
and then the top can burst through to
create that big bakery style dome this
is gonna go into the oven at 425
fahrenheit for five minutes then we'll
reduce the temperature to 350 and bake
for 20 to 25 minutes depending you want
to have a nice golden top that's set in
the middle so you can insert a skewer
through the center and it'll come out
clean except for all that molten
chocolate right into the oven you go
out of the oven and cooled just enough
touch i want to show you the difference
between the in paper versus the out of
paper
out of paper so nice crisp edge muffin
over a little bit and golden brown
in the paper the paper really guided it
up so it's a little bit taller and the
difference is that you don't have that
crisp edge it's really like soft all
over and
just delicious you've got to take a look
at the inside of this take a look
if you like this video check out my
chocolate playlist
someone's making crazy faces behind the
camera
if you like this video check out my
chocolate playlist it has all my
favorite chocolate recipes and they are
amazingly delicious you've got to check
it out now it's time for a bite oh my
gosh do you see how crazy this is
oh my god that is so
good so perfect if you like my videos
hit that like button and subscribe and
i'll see in the next video